[docs] Add billing docs (#27844)
expo/expo: docs/pages/billing/usage-based-pricing.mdx

## How usage-based pricing works

### EAS Build

For EAS Build, a flat fee is charged for an individual build executed at higher-priority levels. This is totaled monthly and charged at the end of your billing period or sooner if you cancel your plan.

> **Note**: Builds that are canceled before any work is done are not charged.

[Production, Enterprise, and Legacy plans](/billing/plans/#plans) subscribers receive credits for EAS Build. These credits can be used to offset the cost of builds. They are reset at the start of the billing cycle and expire at the end of that billing cycle.

For example, consider an account subscribed to the Production plan which does 15 medium Android builds, and 10 large iOS builds in a billing cycle:

| Description             | Price | Quantity | Total |
| ----------------------- | ----- | -------- | ----- |
| Android builds (medium) | $1    | 15       | $15   |
| iOS builds (large)      | $4    | 10       | $40   |
| EAS Build Credit        |       |          | -$55  |

> | **Total**               |       |          | $0    |

Reviewer: Is there a way to right-align all the numbers?

Author: Yes we can (by adding `:` to the hyphens of each column, in this case for numbers).

Here is the result after adding `:` (colon):

![CleanShot 2024-03-26 at 02 37 46@2x](https://github.com/expo/expo/assets/10234615/07639398-ee64-400f-9a44-5f4629f1ac4c)

![CleanShot 2024-03-26 at 02 38 38@2x](https://github.com/expo/expo/assets/10234615/424092ba-d572-48ca-9bcb-4f5bed60afaf)

Since the credit is included in the Production plan, the subscriber pays $0 for their 25 builds.

Next, consider another example where the credit limit is exceeded:

| Description             | Price | Quantity | Total |
| ----------------------- | ----: | -------: | ----: |
| Android builds (medium) |    $1 |       20 |   $20 |
| Android builds (large)  |    $2 |       10 |   $20 |
| iOS builds (medium)     |    $2 |       15 |   $30 |
| iOS builds (large)      |    $4 |       15 |   $60 |
| EAS Build Credit        |       |          |  -$99 |
| **Total**               |       |          |   $31 |

In this scenario, the subscriber pays $31 for 60 builds instead of $130 because the EAS Build Credit covers $99.

<BoxLink
  title="Pricing schedule"
  description="Visit our pricing page for more information on the pricing schedule for supported build platforms and the available resource classes."
  href="https://expo.dev/pricing"
  Icon={CreditCard02Icon}
/>

### EAS Update

> Usage-based pricing for EAS Update comprises two metrics monthly updated users and global edge bandwidth.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Usage-based pricing for EAS Update comprises two metrics: monthly updated users and global edge bandwidth.
```

Monthly updated users reflect the number of unique users who download an update in a billing cycle. At the same time, global edge bandwidth represents the total amount of bandwidth used for all update downloads. Moreover, each monthly updated user includes 40 MiB of global edge bandwidth, up to that plan's global edge bandwidth limit.

> **Note**: A monthly updated user counts only once per billing cycle, regardless of how many updates this user downloads.

Each plan has a number of monthly updated users and global edge bandwidth included as part of the subscription. These differ for each plan and the most updated numbers. See our [Pricing page](https://expo.dev/pricing), for more information.

> **Note**: The [On-demand plan](/billing/plans/#on-demand) includes the same amount of monthly updated users and global edge bandwidth as the Free plan.

> For example, let's consider a subscriber to the On-demand plan who deploys 5 updates of 20 MiB each via EAS Update to 10,000 users. The subscription to the plan includes 1,000 monthly updated users and 100 GiB per month. As a result, the subscriber's overage bill will be:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, let's consider a subscriber to the On-demand plan who deploys 5 updates of 20 MiB each via EAS Update to 10,000 users. The subscription to the plan includes 1,000 monthly updated users and 100 GiB per month. As a result, the subscriber's bill for extra usage will be:
```

Reviewer 2: I would also change the examples on this page to use 20 updates that are 5 MiB each. 20 MiB is on the larger side.

Author: Update the example.

| Updated users         | $0.005 per user | 9,000    |   $45 |
| Global edge bandwidth | $0.10 per GiB   | 525 GiB  | $52.5 |
| **Total**             |                 |          | $97.5 |

Out of the 10,000 users, 1,000 are included in the On-demand plan. As a result, 9,000 are billed for as part of usage-based billing. Paying for 9,000 updated users also includes approximately 351.6 GiB (9000 users \* 40 MiB / 1024).

The global edge bandwidth calculation is:

| Description                                       | Calculation                         | Quantity     |
| ------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- | ------------ |
| Bandwidth used to send updates                    | 5 updates \* 20 MiB \* 10,000 users | 976.5625 GiB |
|                                                   |
| Bandwidth included in plan                        |                                     | 100 GiB      |
| Bandwidth included with 9,000 extra updated users | 9,000 \* 40 MiB                     | 351.5625 GiB |
| **Total**                                         | 976.5625 - 100 - 351.5625           | 525 GiB      |

> > **Note**: If the subscriber then sends another 20 MiB update to the same 10,000 users in the current billing cycle, they will only pay for any bandwidth overage used. This is because Expo only charges for [unique monthly updated users](/eas-update/faq/#how-are-monthly-updated-users-counted-for-a-billing-cycle).
> 
> If the same subscriber is on a Production plan, they will pay $0 as the Production plan includes 20,000 monthly updated users and 1 TiB (1024 GiB). As such, there is no overage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note**: If the subscriber then sends another 20 MiB update to the same 10,000 users in the current billing cycle, they will only pay for any extra bandwidth used. This is because Expo only charges for [unique monthly updated users](/eas-update/faq/#how-are-monthly-updated-users-counted-for-a-billing-cycle).

If the same subscriber is on a Production plan, they will pay $0 as the Production plan includes 20,000 monthly updated users and 1 TiB (1024 GiB). As such, there is no extra bandwidth usage.
```

- Click **Usage** in the navigation menu.
- Under the **EAS Update** section, you will find details on updated users and global edge bandwidth details.

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="Detailed EAS Update usage in the Expo dashboard."
  src="/static/images/billing/usage-03.png"
  style={{ maxWidth: 600 }}
/>

### Enable notifications for EAS Build usage

You can enable **Plan credit usage** notifications to closely monitor your EAS Build usage. It enables email notifications when 80% and 100% of your plan's EAS Build credit is used.

To enable EAS Build credit usage notification:

- Click **Email notifications** in the navigation menu.
- Under **EAS Build notifications**, click **Subscribe** for **Plan credit usage notifications**.

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="Enabling EAS Build plan credit usage notifications in the Expo dashboard."
  src="/static/images/billing/usage-04.png"
  style={{ maxWidth: 720 }}
/>

### How to optimize build usage

You can use [EAS Update](/eas-update/introduction/) and [development builds](/develop/development-builds/introduction/) to test and deploy new code without having to create an entirely new build. This will help you iterate faster and reduce build usage.

> For most apps, the JavaScript code changes more frequently than the underlying native code and configuration. If you are building a new build every time for code changes, consider [using EAS Update to take advantage of the different iterations](/eas-update/how-it-works/) between JavaScript and native code. This way, you can ship those changes as an update instead.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For most apps, the JavaScript code changes more frequently than the underlying native code and configuration. If you are building a new build every time for code changes, consider [using EAS Update to take advantage of the difference in iteration frequency](/eas-update/how-it-works/) between JavaScript and native code. This way, you can ship those changes as an update instead.
```

When using Continuous Integration (CI)/Continuous Deployment (CD) to build pre-production code, you can reduce unnecessary usage by automating the process of building only when changes are made to the native code. You can create a workflow in your CI/CD using [Expo Fingerprint](https://expo.dev/blog/fingerprint-your-native-runtime) to detect when your native code has changed, and only execute a build if it has changed. Otherwise, publish an update if the native code has not changed.

A development build can run any EAS Update that is compatible with its native runtime. If you are using EAS Update with multiple testing channels, you can reduce the need for creating additional builds by having your testers or test devices use the same development build.

### How to optimize update usage

> You can manage certain assets to include or exclude when using EAS Update. It reduces the number of assets uploaded or downloaded from the updates server and the global edge bandwidth used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can manage certain assets to include or exclude when using EAS Update. This reduces the number of assets uploaded or downloaded from the updates server and the global edge bandwidth used.
```

> To optimize the update usage, you can choose to exclude assets that haven't been modified. For example, images or videos that haven't been changed can be excluded. Excluded assets won't be uploaded to the update server and won't be downloaded by the app. However, it's important to make sure that assets that are not part of an update are included in the native build of the app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To optimize storage and bandwidth usage, you can choose to exclude assets that haven't been modified. For example, images or videos that haven't been changed can be excluded. Excluded assets won't be uploaded to the update server and won't be downloaded by the app. However, it's important to make sure that assets that are not part of an update are included in the native build of the app.
```

Also add a clear note that clients will not redownload assets they already have. If a client already has an asset that is also part of a new update, the client will not redownload the asset and will not add to your account's bandwidth usage.

Author: Added a callout to explain about re-downloading behavior of an asset that you shared.

> To optimize the update usage, you can choose to exclude assets that haven't been modified. For example, images or videos that haven't been changed can be excluded. Excluded assets won't be uploaded to the update server and won't be downloaded by the app. However, it's important to make sure that assets that are not part of an update are included in the native build of the app.

Reviewer 3: Could add a link to this feature: https://docs.expo.dev/eas-update/asset-selection/
